Onboaring parents to Transparent Classroom can seem like a big task, but it's actually very easy and straightforward.

Let's start with sending an email to the parents letting them know that your school has started using Transparent Classroom. [Click Here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QZNpp0iOrizKzWVLU9kNNoyJhv1bF4wffj5TmsGwbs4/edit?pli=1) for a form email that you can copy and paste to your email, or check it out for ideas to draft your own. You can also download this flier (attach PDF) and hand it out to your parents during orientation or a parent information night. 

After you've sent the introductory email, go in to Transparent Classroom and add your parents. To do this, first enter a child's profile. Then select the 'add' button next to 'Parents:'. You will be given the option to select an existing parent, or add a new parent. Choose existing parent if the child is a sibling and the parent is already in the system, otherwise, create a new parent. The only information needed is the parent's first and last name and email. Parents will add any additional information when they create their profile. Once you select 'Create', the parent will receive an email inviting them to edit their profile and look at their child's page on Transparent Classroom. Some parents prefer to have their information private, so you can also select the private button next to their email and they can manually publish it when they set up their profile. (Add screen shot of the add a parent page)

If a parent is having trouble setting up their profile or navigating the site, check out our FAQ page under 'User Management'. If you still can't solve the problem you can reach out to Jeremy or send the parent his way. (screenshot of 'User Management' in FAQs)

If you choose to have parents see all the lessons and entries on Transparent Classroom, it may be useful to talk to them about the sequencing and age-appropriatness of the lessons and why they're given when they are. For example, we have found it useful to talk to parents about indirect preparations in Practical Life and Sensorial activites that set the child up to be successful in the Math activities. We have found these charts (link to Voila Montessori charts) helpful in illustrating the flow of Montessori lessons for parents. 

Version 2:

Onboaring parents to Transparent Classroom can seem like a big task, but it's actually very easy and straightforward.

Quick and Easy Steps:
  1. Send introductory email [Click Here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QZNpp0iOrizKzWVLU9kNNoyJhv1bF4wffj5TmsGwbs4/edit?pli=1), and/or information sheet (attach PDF)
  2. Add parents to Transparent Classroom 
    - Select 'add' next to 'Parents' (Screenshot)
    - Select 'new' or 'existing' (screenshot)
    - Input parent's first and last name and email - select 'private' next to email if you think parents would prefer (they can change this later) (Screenshot)
    - Select 'create' at bottom of screen (Screenshot)
Parents will receive an email inviting them to log on to Transparent Classroom to create their profile and see their child's page.

If a parent is having trouble setting up their profile or navigating the site, check out our FAQ page under 'User Management'. If you still can't solve the problem you can reach out to Jeremy or send the parent his way. (screenshot of 'User Management' in FAQs)

If you choose to have parents see all the lessons and entries on Transparent Classroom, it may be useful to talk to them about the sequencing and age-appropriatness of the lessons and why they're given when they are. For example, we have found it useful to talk to parents about indirect preparations in Practical Life and Sensorial activites that set the child up to be successful in the Math activities. We have found these charts (link to Voila Montessori charts) helpful in illustrating the flow of Montessori lessons for parents. 
